Dear fellow practitioners, a matter of
concern
for both those who are unmarried
and those who are married, preparing for
pregnancy,
and those who are pregnant,
is prenatal education. This topic
is discussed extensively
in various fields, from science to
music, and many people focus
on how to contribute
to the mother's well-being and how to give birth to the
most intelligent and beautiful child.
In Buddhism, what
are the concerns and practices that lead to the birth of
a truly intelligent and
beautiful child? To gain this knowledge, we must
understand how the mother gives birth to the child.
Therefore, today, I'm addressing
a question from a user named Khánh
Thiện: "Hello, Ms. Yến, I have a question and I
hope you can guide me. Recently, I've
heard a lot about the term 'prenatal education,' which means
educating the fetus from when it's still in
the womb using scientific methods like
music and conversation. But I also
know that..."  According to the law of cause and effect, a
child must have a specific cause and condition for it to come and be
connected to that mother and family. Therefore,
from the very first days of pregnancy,
each person is different. Some experience
very intense morning sickness, others are completely normal, some have to
stay still from pregnancy to birth, some
work until the day of delivery, some have
very easy births, while others experience
extreme difficulty and pain. So, Venerable Master,
could you guide us according to Buddhist teachings on
what a mother should do and how to practice from the beginning of pregnancy so that
the baby in the womb receives true prenatal education
and both mother and child are in the best possible state throughout the pregnancy? I am
very much looking forward to and respectfully
grateful for your merits. I
pray that many mothers who are pregnant, are pregnant,
or will be pregnant will read
your answer so that they also know how to have a
peaceful and
healthy pregnancy. Dear fellow practitioners, regarding
this question, I will
cite some stories from
Buddhism. There is a
famous story in Buddhism about King
Ashoka who killed his father and mother.  The
queen who gave birth to King A Xa The
naturally had to be cared for in the
best way possible because, as the king, he had been married to
her for a very long time without
children. Even when she was almost old, she
finally
conceived. When she became pregnant, the queen was
very weak and sickly, and all the physicians who
cared for her were
ineffective. She continued to wither away, and
eventually, the queen
expressed her intense desire: she
only longed to swallow a drop of the
king's blood. The
king said, "What's wrong?
That's perfectly normal. Because you really want a
child, you should
suck on a drop of blood." After
sucking the blood, the queen became
vibrant and healthy. So why was
that? Why
such intense craving, even with so many
tonics and medicines? And of course, the
palace was filled with music, dance, and many other
arts. And naturally, the
wife had to be
carefully selected.  That's quite a skill, is
n't it? Etiquette and rules are necessary; they
can't be absent.
Meanwhile, the queen and the king loved each other very much, meaning they were
very affectionate. However, the
reason stemmed from the
king's past life. In this very life, the king had executed
a
Taoist priest because he suspected the priest of seducing the
concubines and ladies-in-waiting. While the king and ladies-in-waiting were hunting in the forest, the
king chased after a
rabbit to shoot it, leaving the concubines
and ladies-in-waiting behind. At that moment, the Taoist priest appeared and spoke to them, captivating them
deeply. The king returned,
saw this, and became furious, accusing the
priest of seducing them. The priest
denied the seduction, but the king
insisted on executing him. The priest then
swore an oath: "I will be
your son to take your life!"
Because of this, he was reincarnated into the
king and queen's life, and the
result was...  After the pregnancy, the
child craved the king's blood, and
ultimately, in that very life, King A
Xa The killed his own father in revenge.
Therefore, all the medicine,
care, and music
the child listened to from within the womb
became useless, dear fellow practitioners. That's clearly a
story in Buddhism,
and there are many other Buddhist stories
about reincarnation for revenge. So, I'm
not
rejecting the idea of ​​letting the baby listen to music and
massaging the belly; it's all very
good for the baby's health and can even increase the
baby's intelligence. However, this is only possible if the baby has good karma
and the mother also has good karma.
The good karma will only
increase if the good deeds are combined, like porous soil
that absorbs rain. But if the
baby has bad karma—I'm saying,
the karma of premature death—then no matter
how much care is given, the baby will still die.  If someone
has the karma to die in the womb, no matter
how much care is given, they will still die in the
womb. That means having bad karma is
like barren land; no matter
how much water we water
it, it will be washed away and won't accept anything.
Therefore, especially for
those who don't have
children yet, we must perform good
deeds so that the child who comes to us will
be good. Don't be like that king who
killed someone;
how can he have a good child?
So,
we must strive to do good in this life, and especially
when we are about to start a family,
we should do good. It's best to
take refuge in the Three Jewels and
vow that from now
until future lives, we will never
do evil. That's how
we can transform our karma.
Before conception, dear fellow practitioners, your children will
never be born.
Yes, according to the Buddha's teachings,
doing good deeds benefits ourselves and all
sentient beings.  Of course,
that karma is the vow,
the vow of repentance, and the vow
to transform our karma so
that we can give birth to
better children. We
won't be burdened by those karmic debts because
from now on, I follow Buddhism and I
won't do evil anymore. It's easier that way;
we can immediately
transform the evil karma and the karmic consequences.
This applies to those who have
n't conceived yet. As for
those who are already pregnant, and haven't had the chance to
do those things yet, and now you
and your child don't know the cause of good or evil karma—you're pregnant, you're pregnant, and you don't know
the cause—whether you
had evil or good karma with
your child in the past—then you should also make a
vow to take refuge in the Three Jewels. You should also vow that
from now on, for all eternity,
you will always do good deeds. If you
and your child have committed any evil karma
together, then when your child is born, you should also have
them take refuge in the Three Jewels and form a
Dharma-companion relationship with each other, diligently doing good deeds.
Repentance means that when we give birth to our child,
it will be better, it will
transform our karma. But when we see our child
crying and being very naughty after birth,
we know that there are things between us
that cause each other dissatisfaction,
so now the child is causing us
dissatisfaction. We must repent, create merit,
practice, and transform our karma so
that both we and our child can benefit. So,
to summarize this, I
advise all of you, dear fellow practitioners,
firstly, to make a vow to take refuge in the Three Jewels, to
cultivate the Bodhi mind for many lifetimes, only by
practicing the Buddha Dharma can we transform
our karma the fastest way. And
immediately start doing good deeds, dear fellow practitioners.
For example, when we are pregnant,
we should not demand things from our parents, meaning we should not
become unfilial children, we should not
bother our parents. We should know, as the
elders said, that having a first child makes us
more filial. That's why our
ancestors had children who were mostly filial.
Listening to your mother-in-law and working diligently is also a
good deed.  It's nothing, it's filial piety,
so I also listen to that
principle. Remember, when Yen's parents went to work, they would
just say, "Today's task must be
finished," just one sentence like that. We sisters would
tell each other to finish everything,
no matter where we were playing. For example,
when it was time to go to work, the whole neighborhood would shout and
go to work, not just
one person. "Whatever you're playing, it's time to
go home and cook dinner." Then everyone would
go home, some would cook dinner, some would bring knives. My
dear friends, it's because my mother was
filial, that's why I was born filial. So
now I also have to learn the Buddha's
teachings, and I'll verify the Buddha's teachings
with reality. Nowadays,
girls usually serve both their
parents and their in-laws. Really. And they even
get spoiled. That's it, the
child is always spoiled, raising them is exhausting. Just try to be diligent, tell your children to be diligent, and
try to buy gifts for your parents. If
anyone gives you money, for example, if your mother gives
you 10,000 dong, take it and buy something for them later.
Gifts for parents should be at least
30,000 VND, don't ask why it's so little.
No one who's pregnant has bought everything and
asked for money from both sides of the family,
then complains later. It's awful, you're pregnant and you don't
care? The child will only
resent you when it's born. That's karma, that
's destiny. The question is about
karma and destiny. Karma and destiny are considered from the heart of
the mother. If she demands, the child will
demand. If she's demanding, the child will demand.
If she's nagging, the child will
nagging. That's it. So, during
pregnancy, we should practice prenatal education through
our own morality, and our child will
be good. That's the foundation, dear friends.
As for massages and music for the baby, that's just the
tip of the iceberg. If, when the
mother comes to visit and
eats, she's pregnant and ca
n't wash the dishes, she
has to expose her belly to the
music for the baby to listen to.
Later, when the child can't wake up, she
won't know what to do.  What kind of music is it? Later on, she'll
only like listening to nonsense music. I was wrong, she said, "Are
n't you going to work?" Mom said, "Don't you
see I'm listening to music?" She
likes music too, but the music in her
heart is like me before.
Therefore, prenatal education according to the
Buddhist principle of karma is the most accurate prenatal education,
helping both you and your child to transform your
karma, have a good karmic connection with
each other, and help each other in this life.
We are connecting with
filial piety, morality, and the Buddha's teachings. Being a Buddhist disciple and taking refuge in the
Five Precepts is best,
and one of the most important precepts is
not lying. Actually, mothers
nowadays are most afraid of their children lying. So,
if you take refuge in the Three Jewels,
vow not to lie, and pray for your child to
transform the karma of lying, and for your
child to have a karmic connection of not lying, it's
very good because children lie terribly these days, dear fellow
practitioners. From
my heart, I also hope that
mothers who are pregnant, or about to become
pregnant, will understand the karmic principle of
karma.  May Buddha grant us the
best possible education for our children from the moment they are in the womb. Wishing both mother and baby
peace and happiness.
[Music]
[Applause]
K
[Music] [Applause] [Music
]
[Applause]
[Music]